Hey guys welcome back to the course so in this lecture we're going to go over a strategy that we here
at Sprint click used to get a ton of clients early on in our history.
This one's a little more abstract.
What we're going to be talking about is how you can find similarities amongst your client your clientele
and your client profiles.
What do I mean by that.
You probably have identified a group of people are probably most likely to purchase from you or to become
clients.
Now we need to analyze that group of people see if there's something in common with them and see whether
or not something in common can be used to find them in mass or in some type of an index.
Hopefully going to make a little bit more sense than to actually get into it.
So without further ado let's get into the screencast.
So what I call this is the email scrapin blast.
So one of the things that you need to do before you can really find any type of growth hacks or successful
marketing strategies for advertising your development business.
You really need to kind of whittle down and hammer down on who exactly is your ideal customer base who
responds to your message the most.
And then what are the commonalities between those groups of people.
What do they have in common.
So for us the largest group of people that we worked with were startups and followed by Believe it or
not were graphic designers now graphic designers.
Why.
Well we actually cover this in another lecture.
But the reason why is because we partnered with them and they brought us clients and we brought them
clients so it worked out really well so we actually thought of them as a secondary market.
So one of the things that we did was we looked at some of the groups that were interested in our services
and this is all based off of what our value proposition was which was that we kind of catered towards
being cheap and being good.
And so we kind of looked for groups that were specifically attracted to us and they started to think
of ways of corralling these people together online and then using that as a way of advertising towards
them.
So I'll give you an example of one of the techniques we used that worked out really well.
So don't dot com is a Web site that helps freelancers who are designers set up their own portfolios
online.
There's a lot of companies out here out there that do this.
And so what was interesting about this platform was that they had a very large user base of our potential
clients.
We recognized that that was the case.
And what we kind of found out was that don't what they do is you sign up you pay I think it's something
like $5 a month and they give you a website that's very very basic and very very template it now template
it is the most important word in what I just said template Web sites always have similarities to them
since they have used template Web sites to give the graphic designers and they had as you can see 91000
graphic designers on their platform.
That was where we saw an opportunity to e-mail scrape and blog.
So I'll give you an example of what exactly we did.
They've recently changed and we use this strategy as well a year and a half ago so I'm not really entirely
surprised that they've changed but it used to be that they had a very very standard design not a lot
of customisation and that's why a lot of people like them because they are cheap but simple they would
get up very quickly.
It used to be the case that right at the bottom of every single thing they posted online would say powered
by don't.
And so literally all we had to do was search in Google for a hard search.
If you guys are not familiar with a hard restricted search basic what that means is that we would search
for something.
So we would search for powered by don't.
And we would do it in hard quotations OK what that means is they would search for exactly that text
nothing else and they used to have us on the surface.
So that was our technique we searched powered by dunked and walla.
We had a complete list of every single Don't Web site for the trickier ones or you ended up doing was
we would use this Web site.
And if you guys are not familiar with it it's called nerdy data.
So what it is it's a Web site that allows you to search the source code of Web sites.
Now they're not going to be searching the deep like server side programming code.
They're searching the HVM MCSA.
And it's not something that Google offers because why would someone specifically need that and it's
it's kind of hard to wrap your head around why someone would need this.
But one of the biggest reasons is marketing efforts as you can see right on their Web site generate
leads so using nerdy data what I can do and I can still do this is I can search for powered by don't.
And that was the tagline they used and it seems like now they might actually just hide it in the code.
And so what it does is it just searches for literally anything anywhere that someone has.
So what I can do is right there so what it did is it pulled up powered by dunk.
Now who else would have that other than someone using don't other than someone who is probably a graphic
designer so it looks like this person uses their system and is a designer wallah.
And so then we literally just did that and we just compiled and you can do it over here download these
results you can download them or you can do is you can use Google and then you can use a virtual assistant
or you can do it manually to just go through and compile all that information.
And now you have a list a basically a very long list of all these people that you know are in your client
group or potential client group.
Now you just need a way of contacting them and then it is just a matter of going through and going each
one of their Web sites and since they're all graphic designers they all want you to contact them so
it was always very very simple to contact them.
And so we just did that and that was one of the best ways that we found to contact people to get our
name out there.
Now between Google hard search and using nerdy data there are a lot of opportunities to dig out any
commonality between your client base.
So obviously first of all you need to figure out what your client base is.
And then second of all you need to find something they share in common.
If it's on the surface you can always use Google.
If it's on somewhere in their code maybe it's a more technical commonality than you would use nerdy
data.
Now an example of nerdy data maybe you are trying to work with a certain WordPress plugin.
Well that certain WordPress plugin probably has the same code somewhere in it.
So you could probably lift that and search for it and you could probably find a list of people who are
using that plugins who maybe you offer server a service or you can fix certain plugins you've already
identified one that's broken.
There's a lot of different opportunities to use these two to find ways of grouping together your potential
client.
Now there's also opportunities where you don't even have to do it yourself.
So for us we again going after graphic designers and we covered this in another lecture.
So you might be somewhat familiar but what you can do is you can just go around and look to see whether
or not there are directories or whether or not they're already created indexes or list even of your
potential client group.
So let's say you are looking for specifically small businesses that are between a certain size and maybe
they have some certain bent towards maybe their marketing agencies.
So specifically you could just Google marketing small business with one other piece of information and
you could see lists and lists of different companies that probably fit that description.
There's a lot of other companies that compile directories.
We got lucky because we just after some searching found the firm list of what the firm was does as they
list out all sorts of graphic design and web development companies out there.
And so quite literally all we have to do is just pick an area we're interested in we can pick say Idaho
and the United States go.
And then I can pick which town I want to the biggest city.
And then now I have a list of 21 companies that all exist in this area and are easily contactable.
So that was one way that we did it.
We just looked for lists now for you guys.
Specifically it just depends on who you're going for.
Who is your niece and then see whether or not someone's already done the hard work for you whether or
not someone has already made a list.
Sometimes you can purchase lists for marketing.
It really just takes some hard Google searching.
Just google your name of your niece plus list email list.
Anything along those lines.
Try to think of areas where those people work and see whether or not there's anywhere they could be
indexed.
We also were able to reach out to graphic designers through the same freelance Web sites that we covered
previously.
So what we quite literally did was went on to Elance went on to up work and use that as a way to contact
people because on say for instance up work I can go to find freelancers I can sort specifically by whatever
it is that I'm looking for.
And so what I can do is I can quite literally just search exactly what I want or sort by it.
So if I was specifically going for graphic design I could cook graphic design maybe I had an idea for
a campaign where I was going to say I want to go only after people who do logo designs are really only
going to go after people who do video video production design or maybe I want to make a web site for
people who do voice talent whatever it is these are indexed lists of people and you can contact them
very easily.
It's quite easy to find people.
And then once you get into contact with them then it's really up to you to craft your message and see
whether or not they're interested in your services.
OK guys so this one's a little bit more abstract.
It's very hard to make a generalized lecture specific to everyone's needs because everyone's specific
way of tackling this strategy is different.
The point is though that if you have a potential group of clients and you know that they are consistently
the ones that you want to be targeting those people have commonalities.
You can try to think of whether or not they have commonalities on their Web sites whether or not there
are places where they hang out specifically or things that they need.
And that's all in common.
And try to use those outlets to find ways of contacting them.
And if you can find ways of contacting them or where they're indexed then you can very easily create
a list and create a contact and marketing strategy from that.
OK guys if you need any clarification.
Post in the group discussion.
This one like I said a little bit more abstract some of you guys out there might not be entirely sure
still how this might apply to your business if you do just post in the group discussion.
I can try to help you out.
Otherwise guys will see in the next lecture.